Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends.
Today, I am here to
answer a question from
a
friend who asked on behalf of another friend. The question is: If someone practices Buddhism to cure a
sick person,
will that cause them to die prematurely?
I will read the
question: "Hello, teacher. I have a friend whose parents are often sick and ca
n't eat or drink
anything, so they vomit and can only drink
milk. Her mother also has pain in her hands and
feet. I advised her to do
more good deeds, recite sutras, and
dedicate merit to lessen her parents' karma, so they
would suffer less. But she said that if
she reduces their karma, her parents will
die sooner. She said that each person
in each life must repay their debts. When the debts
of that life are fully repaid, they will
die and be reborn in another life to
continue repaying their debts. If the debts are repaid early, they will die
sooner. Therefore, she wants her parents to stay
with her longer. I told her that's
not the case, but I don't
know how to explain it."  I hope you can
answer my question so that my friend can understand better.
I sincerely thank you for your kindness.
Dear fellow practitioners,
many of you have also
spoken to me about this issue. For example,
in a family, a Buddhist person's
parents are very ill. The Buddhist
wants to go and chant scriptures for their
parents and advises their siblings, but the
siblings don't allow them to chant, saying that
chanting will cause the
sick person to die sooner. They
fear that chanting will resolve karma, and
resolving karma means death. They
probably think they understand that it means resolving the
karma of being human, and that's why they
die. This concept is
incorrect. I will explain this clearly to the person who sent the
question so they can
answer their friend.
We have two kinds of
karma in this illness: the karma of pain
and the karma of lifespan.
Some people
suffer a lot of pain but have a
very long lifespan, living and
suffering. Others are
very healthy but have a short
lifespan.  A short lifespan means dying early. Does
practicing spiritual cultivation affect
the longevity of
these two cases? Or does it
shorten the lifespan? In the
first case, where the
body is prone to illness
but has a
long lifespan, when we cultivate merit and dedicate it to
good health, that
is, we dedicate the merit to health
and also to
extending the lifespan.
If we dedicate it to the
elimination of illness, the lifespan remains the same, only the
illness is eliminated,
and we still live.
Previously, we performed some meritorious deeds that would have allowed
us to live
50 years in this lifetime, but we also committed
some sins, so we live 55,
but with 20 years of illness.
Now, by cultivating and
dedicating the merit to transform the karmic illness,
we still live
55, and our illnesses lessen. That is a
blessing, a result of the merit accumulated through
cultivation.  To
achieve the elimination of illness and the
extension of lifespan, the merit of one's actions will depend on circumstances. The merit will be divided to
both reduce
illness and prolong life. For example,
if we only dedicate
the merit to reducing illness, the illness
might be reduced by eight parts, but the
lifespan remains the same. However, if
we dedicate the merit to the
elimination of illness and the extension of lifespan, the
illness might only be reduced by
four parts, but lifespan might be extended by one year.
Therefore, we both extend lifespan
and eliminate illness. So,
practicing means giving up worldly desires, doing good
deeds, and creating merit; then our karma will change.
What about the case where a person
dies without any illness, but
we don't know we will die yet,
we only see ourselves as
healthy? In that case, we should also practice to
dedicate the merit to prolonging our lifespan
and to ensure that if we have
any illness, we should dedicate
the merit so that it doesn't come to us. For
example, if in a previous life we ​​created
some karmic cause that led to this day...  If, later on,
my child gets sick, I
will dedicate the merits to
those negative karmic actions so that I can transform my
karma, have a healthy body, a
long life, and diligently practice the Dharma.
So, you need to explain
thoroughly to your friend that this is knowledge
about cultivating merit and dedicating it to
the sick so that they can
be happy and peaceful. It's not about practicing and dedicating
merit to resolve the
karmic illness, but rather about where that person goes after death.
Another point your friend made is
that each person in each life must
repay their debts. Once the debts for
that life are fully repaid, they die and are reborn into
another life to continue repaying the debts.
This question and viewpoint is
contradictory. If the debts for this life are already repaid, what is there left
to repay in the next life? That is, if the
debts for that life are fully repaid, what is there left to
repay in the next life?
Therefore, this viewpoint is
wrong, and the second point is that it's
not...  In every lifetime, we have to pay the
karmic debt of that particular life. There are karmic
debts that we accumulated over
500 lifetimes, and we still haven't
finished paying them off. There was a great Zen master who
only got one answer wrong: that those who practice
Buddhism don't have to bear the consequences of karma anymore, but
they have to be reborn as a fox for 500 lifetimes. So, it's not like
one lifetime as a fox won't
end the karmic debt. Therefore, some of
our actions, words, and deeds are so heavy
that we have to pay for them for
hundreds of lifetimes, not just a few. And some
good deeds can
bring us blessings for many lifetimes,
but in those lifetimes, we do
evil deeds and can't pay the karmic debt
immediately. We have to enjoy all the
blessings of our good deeds first, and only then will
we begin to pay the karmic debt
for our evil deeds. For
example, imagine someone has
10 billion in savings. That person
immediately stops working and just spends their time eating and having
fun.  After spending all their
money on frivolous activities, they resorted to borrowing.
Initially, this person was very reputable, and
everyone lent them money. During the
time they were borrowing, they were
committing evil deeds. However, due to
remaining merit—the trust they had—the merit of having money, and the trust of
others, there were two things: firstly,
having money, and secondly, having the trust
of others.
Even after exhausting the merit of having money, they
still had the merit of being
trusted and loved by others. Therefore, they continued to use up
this remaining merit
by borrowing from others
until they could
no longer borrow from anyone. That is, they borrowed, spent, borrowed
from one person to pay another, and so on, until they completely used up the
merit of being
trusted and loved by others. Then they had to
pay the karmic consequences for
their dishonest borrowing and deceitful behavior. That's when they faced the consequences of their actions.
Therefore, karma has immediate retribution, later retribution, and
retribution in every lifetime. It's not the case that one must
repay karma in every lifetime.  That's the life of that lifetime, you know. So,
understand it this way so you can
advise your friends to practice and accumulate merit,
dedicating it to their parents so they can live longer
and be less ill. Only then will you truly be a
child who knows how to practice and transform
their parents, bringing them into the
Buddha's teachings so they can create
good karma and enjoy the blessings themselves. I
sincerely hope you all become
filial children following the Buddha's
teachings by attaining enlightenment
about karma. I wish all of you, my fellow
practitioners, continued progress.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
Ni y